Using Two Expansion Hubs
========================

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

A single REV Robotics Expansion Hub has a limited amount of input/output
(I/O) ports available. In some instances, you might want to use more
devices than there are ports available. For these instances you might
need to connect a second Expansion Hub to your first Hub to add more I/O
ports.

This document describes how to connect and configure two Expansion Hubs
for use in the FIRST Tech Challenge. Note that the FIRST Tech Challenge
Game Manual Part 1 (rule <RE07>, part f) limits the maximum number of
Expansion Hubs on a single robot to two.

**Important Note:** This document describes the process for setting up a
smartphone Robot Controller with two Expansion Hubs. The process is
similar if you want to connect a Control Hub (which has its own built-in
Expansion Hub) to another Expansion Hub.

Equipment Needed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To follow along with the instructional steps in this document, you will
need the following items:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: auto

   * - Required Item(s)  
     - Image

   * - Two (2) FIRST-approved Android smartphones. One should have the Robot 
       Controller app installed and the other should have the Driver Station 
       app installed. For a list of FIRST-approved Android  smartphones, refer 
       to the current Game Manual Part 1, rule <RE06>.
     - .. figure:: images/twoAndroidPhones.jpg

   * -  USB Type A male to type mini-B male cable.
     -  .. figure:: images/USBTypeACable.jpg
   
   * - Micro USB OTG adapter.
     - .. figure:: images/OTGAdapter.jpg

   * - REV Robotics Switch, Cable, & Bracket (REV-31-1387).
     - .. figure:: images/REVSwitch.jpg

   * - REV Robotics Tamiya to XT30 Adapter Cable (REV-31-1382).
     - .. figure:: images/TamiyaAdapter.jpg

   * - FIRST-approved 12V Battery (such as Tetrix W39057). For a list of 
       FIRST-approved 12V batteries, refer to the current Game Manual 
       Part 1, rule <RE03>.
     - .. figure:: images/Battery.jpg
   
   * - Two(2) REV Robotics Expansion Hubs (REV-31-1153).
     - .. figure:: images/ExpansionHub.jpg 
       .. figure:: images/ExpansionHub.jpg

   * - REV Robotics (or equivalent) 3-Pin JST PH Cable (REV-35-1414, 3 pack shown but only one needed).
     - .. figure:: images/3PinJSTPH.jpg
   
   * - REV Robotics XT30 Extension Cable (REV-31-1394).
     - .. figure:: images/xt30Extension.jpg


Checking the Address of an Expansion Hub
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Before you connect your two Expansion Hubs together, you should first
check the serial address associated with each of the Hubs.

2. Each Expansion Hub has a serial address assigned to it at the factory.
By default, this serial address is the same for all Hubs. If you want to
connect two Expansion Hubs together, then you will have to change the
address of one of your Hubs.

3. You can determine the address of an Expansion Hub by connecting it to a
12V battery and to your Robot Controller. Create and save a temporary
configuration file for your Expansion Hub. You do not need to have any
motors, servos, or sensors defined in your configuration file, but the
attached Expansion Hub must be included in the file. Note that after we
change the address of the Expansion Hub we will eventually delete this
temporary configuration file.

.. figure:: images/CheckAddressHardware.jpg
   :align: center

|
   
4. After you have saved the configuration file and returned to the main
screen of the Robot Controller app, the Expansion Hub’s LED should enter
a state where it turns green for a few moments (indicating that it’s
successfully connected to a Robot Controller) and then it will blink
blue for a number of times equivalent to the device’s address.

For example, if your Expansion Hub has an address of 2, and it is
successfully connected to a Robot Controller and powered by a12V
battery, the blink sequence that will repeat for the LED is as follows,

``GREEN (long) –> BLUE (short) –> BLUE (short)``

This sequence will repeat over and over again. Use this process to check the serial addresses for each of your
Expansion Hubs.

**Important Note:** By default, a REV Robotics Expansion Hub should have
its address preset at the factory to a value of 2. Also by default, a
REV Robotics Control Hub should have the address for its internal
Expansion Hub preset at the factory to a value of 1. If you are using a
Control Hub combined with a second Expansion Hub, then their factory
addresses (1 and 2 respectively) should not conflict. You should not
need to change either address for this combination.

**Important Note:** An address of 1 is typically reserved for a Control
Hub. As a general rule, you should avoid using an Expansion Hub with an
address of 1. Your Expansion Hubs should all have non-conflicting
addresses that are also not equal to 1.

Changing the Address of an Expansion Hub
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the Advanced Settings menu of the Robot Controller App
to change the address of an Expansion Hub. Note that it is recommended
that when you change the address of an Expansion Hub, you only connect
one Expansion Hub to the Robot Controller during the change address
process.

With your Expansion Hub connected to the 12V battery and to the Robot
Controller, launch the Settings menu from Robot Controller app (note you
can also do this from the Driver Station app, if the Driver Station is
paired to the Robot Controller).

1. Select the Advanced Settings item to display the Advanced Settings menu.

.. figure:: images/AdvancedSettings.jpg
   :align: center

2. Then select the Expansion Hub Address Change item to display the
Expansion Hub address screen.

.. figure:: images/ExpansionHubAddressChange.jpg
   :align: center

3. The USB serial number of the Expansion Hub and its currently assigned
address should be displayed. By default, the factory assigned address is
2.

.. figure:: images/DefaultAddress.jpg
   :align: center

4. Use the dropdown list control on the right hand side to change the
address to a non-conflicting value.

.. figure:: images/NewAddress.jpg
   :align: center

Push the “Done” button to change the address. You should see a message
indicating that the Expansion Hub’s address has been changed.

.. figure:: images/AddressChangeComplete.jpg
   :align: center

Warning: Expansion Hub “Expansion Hub 2” is missing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After the address has been successfully changed, if you return back to
the main screen of your Robot Controller app (which will restart the
robot), you should see an error message indicating that the Robot
Controller can no longer find the Expansion Hub that you configured
earlier. This is because the configuration file was created with the
original address of the Expansion Hub.

.. figure:: images/ExpansionHub2Missing.jpg
   :align: center

You can delete the temporary configuration that was made with the old
address, and then create a new configuration file for the Expansion
Hub’s new address. Save the new configuration file and return to the
main Robot Controller screen. The Expansion Hub should blink the new
address value after the robot restart.

Connecting the Two Expansion Hubs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. After you have changed the address of one of the Hubs, you can use the
3-pin JST PH cable and the XT30 cable to daisy chain the two Hubs
together. Before you do this, disconnect the 12V battery and power
switch from the first Expansion Hub.

Use the XT30 extension cable to connect an XT30 power port on one of the
Expansion Hubs to an XT30 power port on the other Hub.

.. figure:: images/XT30ExtensionConnected.jpg
   :align: center

2. The Expansion Hubs use the RS-485 serial bus standard to communicate
between devices. You can use the 3-pin JST PH cable to connect one of
the ports labeled “RS485” on one Expansion Hub to one of the ports
labeled “RS485” on the other Expansion Hub.

.. figure:: images/RS485Connected.jpg
   :align: center

Note that it is not important which “RS485” port that you select on an
Expansion Hub. Either port should work.

.. figure:: images/RS485Port.jpg
   :align: center

3. Once you have the two devices daisy chained together (12V power and
RS-485 signal) you can reconnect the battery and power switch, and then
connect the Robot Controller and power on the devices.

.. figure:: images/DualConnected.jpg
   :align: center

Configuring Your Expansion Hubs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you were able to successfully daisy chain your two Expansion Hubs,
then you should be able to create a new configuration file that includes
both devices.

Connect the Robot Controller and select the Configure Robot option from
the Settings menu. Press the New button to create a new configuration
file. When you first scan for hardware, your Robot Controller should
detect the Expansion Hub that is immediately connected to the Robot
Controller via the OTG adapter and USB cable. The Robot Controller will
automatically label this device as an Expansion Hub “Portal”. The Robot
Controller will talk through this portal to the individual Expansion
Hubs.

.. figure:: images/ExpansionHubPortal.jpg
   :align: center

If you click on the Portal item in the configuration screen, you should
see two Expansion Hubs listed, each with their respective addresses as
part of their default device name.

.. figure:: images/TwoHubsConfigured.jpg
   :align: center

You can save this configuration file and return to the main screen of
the Robot Controller. After the robot has been restarted, each Hub’s LED
should be blinking in the manner that indicates its individual address.

Congratulations, you are now ready to use your dual Expansion Hubs! You
can configure and operate these Hubs as you would an individual Hub.
